UNX510/ - 

He might going to record the lecture so I am available to retake again to catch up.

1. Introduce yourself at discussion board -> Introduction

If you want an instant reply, please sent the question thorugh email or microsoft teams.

I can try the lab a lot.

What is an Operating System? - Collection of programs which manage and control the basic operation of the computer

Putty 

senecaID@matrix.senecacollege.ca (senecac.on.ca)

1. Simply go to the cmd or powershell
2. ssh slee395@matrix.senecacollege.ca

<Unix File System>

There are no drive letters (i.e. C:, D:)

Windows:
Path --> drive_letter:\folder\subfolder\...

/homeDirectory/otherDirectories/...

If I type pwd(present working directory), it shows where I am.

When I type cd / it goes root
If you type cd without any command and it will change to the user's home directory

tree: to see what I do have on current folder

man: manual, you can combine any command after man, like 'man tree' and it will show how to use the command


~: Home directory, where you keep your personal files. 'cd ~' === 'cd'

mkdir: make directory
If I want to make a subfolers, mkdir -p test1/test2/test3


rmdir: remove directory 

'cd ..' help you to go you back level down.
'cd ../..' help you to go back 2 level down.

Any file name starting with a period is considered to be a hidden file.

ls
-l option - details
-d option - displays info about the directory itself instead of the files within it.s
-A option - displays “Almost” all files – not including . and ..

Types of files:
- indicates a regular file
b or c indicates a device file
d indicates a directory

touch - creates an empty file


Permissions
r: read
w: write
e: execute

-rw-r--r--: reason why it is divided by 3 blocks is it represents a group

Directory has a 'd' at the very first, normal file made by the command 'touch' does not have 'd'

vi: text editor, also can create a text file.
If you type 'i' then you can start to write
If you just type vi and edit the text, then :w filename is required to save that written text file.

vi modes:
Command mode(default) - input text, delete text, append text, etc.
Input mode - Input Mode allows user to enter or edit text. Press <ESC> to return to command mode.
Last-line mode - when you press columns ':'

Moving in Command Mode:
h (left), j (down), k (up), and l (right).
w (right one word or to special characters),
W (right one word including special characters)
b (left one word or to special characters),
B (left one word including special characters)
0 (zero) (beginning of line)
$ (end of line)
G (go to last line in file)
237G (go to line 237 in file)

Getting into Input Mode:
i – insert to left of cursor
I – insert at beginning of line
o – insert line below current line
0 – insert line above current line 
a - append to right of cursor
A - append at end of current line 
r - replace character under cursor
R – overwrite text character-by-character

If you want to go out, simply type esc and type :wq 
:wq : write and quit
:q! : not to save and quit

cat: to see the file content, made by the command vi

man - manual command (i.e. man [option] command)
-k option - provides short explanation relating to a command. useful when user does not remember the name of a command. ex) man -k calendar



